February, 2025 notes (#363)
tc39/tc39-notes: meetings/2025-02/february-20.md

# 106th TC39 Meeting | 20 February 2025

**Attendees:**

| Name             | Abbreviation | Organization        |
|------------------|--------------|---------------------|
| Chris de Almeida | CDA          | IBM                 |
| Samina Husain    | SHN          | Ecma                |
| Eemeli Aro       | EAO          | Mozilla             |
| Daniel Ehrenberg | DE           | Bloomberg           |
| Daniel Minor     | DLM          | Mozilla             |
| Ujjwal Sharma    | USA          | Igalia              |
| Art Vandelay     | AVY          | Vandelay Industries |
| Jesse Alama      | JMN          | Igalia              |

> | Ron Buckton      | RBN          | Microsoft           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ron Buckton      | RBN          | Microsoft           |
| Nicolò Ribaudo   | NRO          | Igalia              |
| Kevin Gibbons    | KG           | F5                 |
```
Nicolò was present on Thursday, as can be seen from the presence of “NRO” in this day’s logs.
Kevin Gibbons was present on every day.

JSL: I would modify that just a bit. About the secret block vote, and I don’t think the step of revealing the blocker is necessary. Using a tool like TCQ to at least take the temperature check of the room on kind of where are we at on this makes perfect sense, but it can also remain completely anonymous. It’s just like, we’re not very enthusiastic about this or this is something that for sure we want to—also want to render a specific question. If we are going to do that, you have to be able to have specific question and what is the temperature on the question?

> JSC: We found temperature checks using TCQ with emoji from what I recall. Exactly like that. But I think it’s important to have it be shown with a specific question like would you block this? And have it remain completely anonymous. And positive, positive and following, and confused, instead of something like this, I would like it to be clear, would you block this and have it remain completely unanimous? I think that would be productive. Does that go with what you’re saying? And mitigate the reluctance of people to show and give information unanimously to people whether they would be the only one who would block it or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSC: We have temperature checks using TCQ with emoji from what I recall. Exactly like that. But I think it’s important to have it be shown with a specific question like would you block this? And have it remain completely anonymous. And positive, positive and following, and confused, instead of something like this, I would like it to be clearly “would you block this” and have it remain completely anonymous. I think that would be productive. Does that go with what you’re saying? And mitigate the reluctance of people to block, by giving information anonymously to people whether they would be the only one who would block it or not.
```

JSL: I think it’s important there to understand what we’re talking about with the anonymous temperature check is not an anonymous block. Blocking would still have to be explicit. They still have to raise their hand. I want to block this. And I think it’s important to speak to there is social cost can’t just be like I don’t want this to move forward. If the proposal has been adopted by the committee and says we think this is something we should work on, then whoever is blocking advancement of that does have a responsibility to figure out how to unblock it. It’s not just I don’t want this to advance, it is I will work with the champions and figure out a path forward that does work that does advance the work of the committee. Otherwise, if that doesn’t happen or if they get together and they work that out and they still can’t find a path, then it becomes a committee decision on does this advance or do we park this? It’s not one person blocking it at that point. It’s the committee deciding, yes, there’s not a path forward. So, you know, we can’t define what the social cost is and part of it is you have to work to advance it within reason.

> JSC: Just adding on to what JSL said concerns about actual unanimous blocking makes sense. I’m just talking about having some sort of temperature check showing people, telling them if I were blocking, if I blocked, would someone else also block too and then you have to justify everything and whatever. If you know the answer yourself and predicting what SYG is going to say. If you don’t want to propose to advance, you don’t need this question or whatever. But it still could be useful, I guess, for other people who would want to. But if you already know you don’t want the proposal to advance, then you can just block it or whatever any way. That’s all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSC: Just adding on to what JSL said. The concerns about actual anonymous blocking make sense. I’m just talking about having some sort of temperature check showing people, telling them if I were blocking, if I blocked, would someone else also block too and then you have to justify everything and whatever. If you know the answer yourself and can predict what the other is going to say…If you don’t want the proposal to advance, you don’t need this question or whatever. But it still could be useful, I guess, for other people who would want to. But if you already know you don’t want the proposal to advance, then you can just block it or whatever anyway. That’s all.
```
